Motion sickness is a common problem in people traveling by car, train, airplanes, and especially boats. Anyone can get it, but it is more common in children, pregnant women, and people taking certain medicines. Motion sickness can start suddenly, with a queasy feeling and cold sweats. It can then lead to dizziness and nausea and vomiting.

Your brain senses movement by getting signals from your inner ears, eyes, muscles, and joints. When it gets signals that do not match, you can get motion sickness. For example, if you are reading on your phone while riding a bus, your eyes are focused on something that is not moving, but your inner ear senses motion.

Where you sit can make a difference. The front seat of a car, forward cars of a train, upper deck on a boat or wing seats in a plane may give you a smoother ride. Looking out into the distance - instead of trying to read or look at something in the vehicle - can also help.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

Learn More
Can Video Games Give People Motion Sickness? (Nemours Foundation)
Also in Spanish
Car Sickness (American Academy of Pediatrics)
Also in Spanish
Ginger From the National Institutes of Health (National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health)
Human Balance System (Vestibular Disorders Association)
Mal de Débarquement Syndrome (MdDS) (American Brain Foundation)
Motion Sickness (American Academy of Family Physicians)
Also in Spanish
Motion Sickness: First Aid (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research)
Also in Spanish
Travelers' Health: Motion Sickness (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
Genetics
Motion sickness: MedlinePlus Genetics From the National Institutes of Health (National Library of Medicine)
Clinical Trials
ClinicalTrials.gov: Motion Sickness From the National Institutes of Health (National Institutes of Health)
Journal Articles
References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National Library of Medicine)
Article: Galvanic vestibular stimulation for Mal de Debarquement syndrome: a pilot study... 
Article: Functional and imaging anomalies of the vestibular system in motion sickness:... 
Article: Construction of a computational model of individual progression of motion sickness... 
Motion Sickness -- see more articles 
Topic Image
Mareo (Cinetosis)
National Institutes of Health
The primary NIH organization for research on Motion Sickness is the National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders
Disclaimers
MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external links and our quality guidelines.
The information on this site should not be used as a substitute for professional medical care or advice. Contact a health care provider if you have questions about your health.